---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Bridging Functionality and Accessibility
---
<video
src="https://leozhvng23.github.io/dream-blog/images/Untitled.mov" controls="controls" style="max-width: 730px;">
</video>

The culmination of several weeks of laborious work materialized this week. We finally have an end-to-end system that's operational! One cannot overstate the satisfaction that comes from seeing disparate components, meticulously developed over weeks, working in harmony. It's a testament to the team's dedication, adaptability, and determination.

This week's challenge was twofold: to make our app amenable to iOS's built-in accessibility features, particularly VoiceOver, and then to ensure compatibility without sacrificing the app's unique functionalities. VoiceOver, an essential feature for BLV users, essentially narrates the content displayed on the screen. 

Navigating the app with VoiceOver enabled was initially a challenge in itself. The gestures, feedback, and interactions that come naturally when sighted users use a phone are completely different under VoiceOver. It was almost like relearning how to use the iPhone, but from the perspective of someone with a visual impairment.

The primary challenge was the interactive map element of our app. When VoiceOver was enabled, the system merely treated our interactive map as a static 2D image, thereby rendering our navigation functions useless. After delving into numerous forums, developer documentation, and experimenting with different settings, I managed to find a way to make our map both interactive and accessible. The solution involved crafting custom actions for VoiceOver and ensuring that these actions appropriately communicated the nature of the map and its various functions.

Incorporating accessibility without undermining our app's core functionality was no mean feat. Still, the endeavor was not just about solving a technical challenge. It was a powerful lesson in empathy and understanding the barriers that many users face daily. Every step forward we take brings us closer to creating a tool that will genuinely make a difference in the lives of its users.

With this key hurdle surmounted, I'm more eager than ever to see our app in the hands of its intended users. The real test, and reward, lies ahead.
