---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Onboarding & Code Walkthrough
---

My second week in the lab marked the completion of my onboarding process. I navigated through various tasks such as setting up GitHub permissions and filling out requisite forms. The week was filled with intriguing discoveries, as our team leader Gaurav outlined our immediate goal of further implementing and refining the computer vision and guidance system for our Pedestrian Navigation project.

My teammate, Mingyu, a Master's student who has been part of the project for the past semester, presented his work on utilizing Kalman Filters for predicting the future locations of low-vision pedestrians crossing the street. Gaurav also showed his system that uses the CLIP model to discern whether a user is signaling for help by waving their hands. The ultimate objective is to combine these systems to detect and assist blind or low-vision pedestrians.

My task for the week is to thoroughly understand the existing code base. Alongside Koushik, another recent addition to the team, our immediate role is to combine Gaurav's and Mingyu's systems. As is expected with any onboarding phase, the sheer volume of new information has been overwhelming. However, given my prior experience with machine learning models and computer vision, I managed to work through the existing code, and by the end of the week, had acquired a solid understanding of the system. This foundation has enabled me to start merging the two systems, setting the stage for a productive and thrilling journey ahead in this project.
